README.md, before:

![License](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=License&message=MIT&color=blue)   [License - MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT/)

# Employee-Management-System 
Live Application Link 👀 

---
## The Task
```
Build a command-line application from scratch to manage a company's employee database, using Node.js, Inquirer, and MySQL.
```
---
## User Story
```
AS A business owner
I WANT to be able to view and manage the departments, roles, and employees in my company
SO THAT I can organize and plan my business
```

---
## Acceptance Criteria 
```
GIVEN a command-line application that accepts user input
WHEN I start the application
THEN I am presented with the following options: view all departments, view all roles, view all employees, add a department, add a role, add an employee, and update an employee role
WHEN I choose to view all departments
THEN I am presented with a formatted table showing department names and department ids
WHEN I choose to view all roles
THEN I am presented with the job title, role id, the department that role belongs to, and the salary for that role
WHEN I choose to view all employees
THEN I am presented with a formatted table showing employee data, including employee ids, first names, last names, job titles, departments, salaries, and managers that the employees report to
WHEN I choose to add a department
THEN I am prompted to enter the name of the department and that department is added to the database
WHEN I choose to add a role
THEN I am prompted to enter the name, salary, and department for the role and that role is added to the database
WHEN I choose to add an employee
THEN I am prompted to enter the employee’s first name, last name, role, and manager, and that employee is added to the database
WHEN I choose to update an employee role
THEN I am prompted to select an employee to update and their new role and this information is updated in the database 
```
---
## Description
```
add text here
```
---
## Media
![Tech-Blog]()

---
## Apps 
*  MySQLWorkbench
*  Visual Studio Code
*  Node JS
*  npm 
    * inquirer
    * mysql2
    * figlet
    * console-table-row
    * chalk
    * color
*  Canva
*  Windows 10 photo editor

---
## Languages
* JavaScript
* SQL
---

## Resources 
* Teaching Crew at UniSA Coding Bootcamp 
* GitHub 
* Youtube
* Google
---

Commit message:

working code and video link

README.md, after:

![License](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=License&message=MIT&color=blue)   [License - MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT/)

# Employee-Management-System 
Live Application Link 👀 

---
## The Task
```
Build a command-line application from scratch to manage a company's employee database, using Node.js, Inquirer, and MySQL.
```
---
## User Story
```
AS A business owner
I WANT to be able to view and manage the departments, roles, and employees in my company
SO THAT I can organize and plan my business
```

---
## Acceptance Criteria 
```
GIVEN a command-line application that accepts user input
WHEN I start the application
THEN I am presented with the following options: view all departments, view all roles, view all employees, add a department, add a role, add an employee, and update an employee role
WHEN I choose to view all departments
THEN I am presented with a formatted table showing department names and department ids
WHEN I choose to view all roles
THEN I am presented with the job title, role id, the department that role belongs to, and the salary for that role
WHEN I choose to view all employees
THEN I am presented with a formatted table showing employee data, including employee ids, first names, last names, job titles, departments, salaries, and managers that the employees report to
WHEN I choose to add a department
THEN I am prompted to enter the name of the department and that department is added to the database
WHEN I choose to add a role
THEN I am prompted to enter the name, salary, and department for the role and that role is added to the database
WHEN I choose to add an employee
THEN I am prompted to enter the employee’s first name, last name, role, and manager, and that employee is added to the database
WHEN I choose to update an employee role
THEN I am prompted to select an employee to update and their new role and this information is updated in the database 
```
---
## Description
```
An Employee management system to view, amend, add and delete as required.
```
---
## Media


[Youtube video - using the application](https://youtu.be/ZqpqcMF4ym0) 👀 

![schema](./assets/images/schema.png)

![pic1]()

![pic2]()


---
## Apps 
*  MySQLWorkbench
*  Visual Studio Code
*  Node JS
*  npm 
    * inquirer
    * mysql2
    * figlet
    * console-table-row
    * chalk
    * color
*  Canva
*  Windows 10 photo editor

---
## Languages
* JavaScript
* SQL
---

## Resources 
* Teaching Crew at UniSA Coding Bootcamp 
* GitHub 
* Youtube
* Google
---
